If you already have experience in
machine learning,
unstructured data,
such as numerical and
categorical data,
you know about techniques
to clean your datasets.
Now, I want to introduce you to
a few fundamental techniques
for cleaning text data.
I'll give you some
practical advice on how to
clean a corpus and
split it into words,
or more accurately, tokens,
through a process
known as tokenization.
In Course 1, I previously
spoke about data preparation,
cleaning, and tokenization,
but now I'll go into
some more details.
First, you should
consider the words of
your corpus as case insensitive.
For instance, the
word "The" should be
represented identically
regardless of its case.
For example, whether it
begins with a capital T,
say at the beginning of
the sentence or not.
You can do this by
converting the corpus to
either all lowercase
or all uppercase.
Secondly, you should
handle punctuation.
You could, for
instance, represents
all interrupting
punctuation marks,
such as full stops, commas,
and question marks, as
a single special word
of the vocabulary.
You could ignore non
interrupting punctuation marks,
such as quotation marks.
You could collapse
multi-sign marks,
such as triple question marks
into a single mark and so on.
Next, you want to handle numbers.
For example, if numbers do not
carry an important
meaning in your use case,
you could drop all
of the numbers.
However, numbers may have
significant meaning that is
relevant to your use case.
For instance, 3.14 is
the number for Pi,
90210 is the name of
a television show and
the area code for Beverly
Hills, California.
So you can keep these numbers
in your corpora as is.
If you're corpora has
many unique numbers,
such as many area codes,
you may find that it makes
more sense to replace
all the numbers with a special
token, such as number.
This allows the
model to note that
the important thing is
that it's a number.
Instead of trying to distinguish
between 90210 and other area
codes or phone numbers.
You also need to handle
special characters,
such as mathematical symbols,
currency symbols, section
and paragraph signs,
and line markup signs and so on.
It's usually safe to drop them.
Finally, and especially if you're
working on modern
corpus of user inputs,
such as tweets or
consumer reviews,
you should handle special words,
such as emojis and
hashtags, #nlp.
Depending on if and how you want
your model to confirm
meaning to them.
You could, for example,
consider that each emoji or
hashtag should be considered
as an individual word.
I'll give a basic
example in Python to
demonstrate a few of
these recommendations.
The corpus in this example is,
who loves "word
embeddings" in 2020?
I do!!! With an emoji,
punctuation marks,
and the number.
Here's the code to import and
initialize the libraries.
I'm using the
popular NLTK library
to perform tokenization.
It has a smart
tokenization module named
"punkt" to handle common
special uses of punctuation.
For example, it knows
that full stops,
which are periods and
abbreviations and
middle names do not signify
the end of a sentence.
I'm also using the
emoji library just
to give you an idea of how
you could handle emojis.
Next comes the actual logic.
First, using a
regular expression,
I'm collapsing all interrupting
punctuation signs and replacing
them with a full stop.
The outcome here is,
who loves "word
embeddings" in 2020, I do.
With the question and exclamation
marks replaced with
a single full stop.
Next time using NLTK's word
tokenize function to split
this string into an
array of tokens.
As you can see, the
punctuation signs
have been separated
as individual tokens,
including the quotation marks.
Finally, using at
least comprehension,
I'm keeping tokens and
converting them to
lowercase if they are one of
the following: alphabetical,
if full-stops or previously an
interrupting punctuation
mark, an emoji.
So this gets rid
of numbers such as
2020 and unknown
special characters,
and this is the resulting array.
You can now use this
array to extract
center words and their
surrounding context words,
which you'll dive into
in more detail next.